This repo contains the assembler, the VM, and the specification of Piculet, a
bytecode that I developed some years ago.

Piculet is an old project that I worked on throughout a period of my life
roughly spanning from 2018-10 to 2023-01, from high school to my early
university years. Not included, there was also a programming language to target
this bytecode, as well as a graphics API and other libraries that I worked on.



	-----------------------------------
	ABANDON HOPE, ALL YE WHO ENTER HERE
	-----------------------------------


The code quality here is absolutely horrific and you do not want to witness it.
Turn and run in the other direction as fast as you can. It all works, however I
originally wrote it as if I were an idiot and while I'd like to clean it up
today, my efforts are really best spent elsewhere on better, properly structured
projects. Alas, Piculet is still a fine accomplishment so I feel okay wearing
this dunce hat with pride. Plus, the jank gives it a little extra character!

One of the key reasons this project was abandoned was it was primarily designed
with game engines in mind, and not with the sufficient memory isolation,
threading, or interrupt mechanisms required for OS development, which I've had
long interest in eventually diving into.

I do think of this project more as a practice run for subsequently inventing
Piculet's successor - a proper instruction set with all the bells and whistles
you'd find on a real CPU, and its carefully optimized emulator.



	---------
	LICENSING
	---------


Specification: all rights reserved.
Everything else (excluding the third-party nothings/stb files) is MIT.



	-----
	USAGE
	-----


To use the assembler (outputs a file ./out.bin):
	cc asm.c -o asm
	./asm file.s

	Option -s outputs each assembled shader to a file (_shader0, _shader1, ...)
	Option -v prints unused label warnings


To use the VM (GLFW, GL 3.1+ - Linux, BSD, likely MacOS):
	cc vm.c -o vm -lGL -lglfw -lm
	./vm out.bin


For example programs see /demos/ - hand-written assembly I used while testing.
